I used to write code in many languages, like Python, C, and C++, but shell scripting was a new experience for me. On one hand, I was a little bit nervous because I didn't remember commands in scripting very well. On the other hand, writing code in a new way excited me very much.

I started the process by googling about what is an automated readability index is and obtained idea about it. Through this, I developed some logic to write the code. I draw a rough sketch of the code in my mind to understand the flow of my code and to check if it is really going to work out. In this phase, I was able to understand some problems that could arise at the time of execution and what changes needed to be made. The main advantage of this was that I got the idea to use case statement inside my code. Finally, I started writing my code. Many issues were faced during the development process. One important challenge was accurately counting the number of sentences due to the limitations of wc-l, which only counts newlines. This was overcome by using grep -o to get sentences that end with '. ! ?'. Additionally, I faced problems while preparing the condition check. To resolve this, I referred  to the shell scripting lecture notes prepared by me on the previous class. From this, I got the idea of providing conditions to the case. Furthermore, referred man wc for getting more idea and to find difference in wc -l,wc -w, wc -m . Through this research and references, I was able to write my first shell script.


In conclusion, the process of writing this code helped me get familiar with shell scripting and understand several commands. Moreover, it provides a proper awareness of the error correction process when writing code. I obtained the courage to write more shell scripts after completing this work. 
